
# Pattern Recognition Assignment 2

This repository contains complete End-to-End pipelines to handle numerical and image data.




## Installation & Requirements

Make sure you have Python **3.7.6** or higher installed on your system. Then run:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
    
## Usage
Before running any of the following pipelines, make sure you are the **root** folder. Before running 
any of prepared pipelines, prepare your environment by running:

```bash
prepare_folders.bat
```

This will create necessary directories for fidures generated by pipelines.

### Numerical Pipeline

 To launch the whole pipeline for Genes dataset, run:

```bash
python "Gene Data Pipeline/PipelineGenes.py"
```
A full grid search costs much time. Therefore, the grid search is skipped when the file Data/GridSearch.npy is available. The first time the code is run, it will read the data set and store it in the Data folder as rawData.npy.
 This is time consuming, but only done once. The figures in the report are generated, 
 and the calculation of the F1 score are calculated, by running: 

```bash
python "Gene Data Pipeline/DataVisualization.py"
```


### Image Pipeline

To perform grid search across all models, run:

```bash
python "Image Data Pipeline/gs.py" <arg>
```

The argument determines how the dataset is processed. Available options are:

- unreduced
- reduced
- augmented

As for the Numerical Pipeline, the grid search is time consuming. Apart of grid search across
all models, it is also possible to run the pipeline with chosen classifier. To do so, run:

```bash
python "Image Data Pipeline/main.py" <arg1> <arg2>
```

Where 1st argument determeines data preprocessing method and second argument is the model used
for classification. Available options are:

- svm (for Support Vector Machine)
- rf (for Random Forest)
- knn (for K-Nearest Neighbors)
- km (for K-Means)

### Semi-Supervised Learning Pipeline

To run the semi-supervised pipeline, run:

```bash
python "Semi-supervised Pipeline/PipelineCreditcards.py" 
```
Above the main loop, set `number_of_rounds` to the desired number of times the experiment should be repeated. By default it is set to 100. Average accuracies and F1-scores will be printed on the command line at the end. The Final Results folder will contain all accuracies 
and F1-scores for each model saved to files, as well as relevant plots.
## Authors

- [LuukvanKeeken](https://github.com/LuukvanKeeken)
- [kvanschuijlenburg](https://github.com/kvanschuijlenburg)
- [Pieter-Jacobs](https://github.com/Pieter-Jacobs)
- [DanielSalamon](https://github.com/DanielSalamon)


